>> Estelle Weyl: So what properties,
with animated some properties,
with transition but really it's
an animation of those properties,
which properties are animatable?
Anything which has a midpoint
that you could define,
is transitionable or animatable.
So when you go from
opacity: 1 to opacity: 0,
you can figure out that
the midpoint is opacity 0.5.
But when you go from display block to
display none, what is the midpoint?
There is none.
So display is not transitionable,
or animatable, but
opacity is.
>> Estelle Weyl: You can go from font size
100 to font size 120 and you know
that the midpoint is font size 110.
But you can't go from code height: auto
to height: 1000 pixels, cuz what is auto?
You actually can,
it will allow you to, but
you don't know what effect
it's going to have.
The best thing to do is to
actually use min-height.
So you say min-height: 0,
which is auto, right?
It's gonna view whatever
height it needs to be.
Min height 1000 that's going
to go to a thousand and
then you know that the midpoint is 500.
So it's a rule of thumb.
It's not exact, but, generally, if you
can think in your head where the midpoint
would be,
then you can assume that it's animateable.
This is a list of
transitionable properties.
It's probably grown,
because there are more properties now.
But all of these, you can kinda come up
with a midpoint, except for visibility.
Visibility is transitionable, at the 100%
mark it goes from hidden to visible, or
visible to hidden.
Depending which direction you're going in,
so
it is something you can put
in a transition property.
It won't break it, but
it's slightly different.
Okay, so a few tips and tricks.
Okay, so here I wanna talk a little
bit about the transition placement.
So I'm saying transition 3 seconds,
and it's going to steps.
And we haven't covered steps, but
that's a timing function.
>> Estelle Weyl: So
when it goes to invalid,
when it's invalid, it will transition but
it won't transition when
you go from valid to focus.
So I'm gonna click in here and you saw,
it didn't transition because it's
going from green to yellow, but
when I put in a three, no, yes.
If I put in a three, it's not gonna
be valid and it's gonna transition to
red.
>> Estelle Weyl: Apparently it did not.
>> Speaker 2: Right.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Estelle Weyl: Yeah thank you.
So it did it in three steps so it's
a little bit weird let's just do linear.
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay and
now I'm gonna go up and
it's gonna become valid.
It went to focus first cuz focus is last.
Let's just put this X here.
>> Estelle Weyl: So
I'm gonna go to three.
>> Estelle Weyl: And
you see as linearly
moving from green to red.
And then four
>> Estelle Weyl: Seven.
It's going back to red.
And then if I put focus
right there when it
goes from green to yellow
it will not animate, but
only when it goes from
red to either yellow or
red to green and
I need to put this back on the bottom
because when I go focus
it should turn yellow.
And there we go.
So the source order actually mattered.
Because otherwise, they all have
the exact same specificity, right?
They're all at 011.
>> Estelle Weyl: So for
it actually to change colors
>> Estelle Weyl: It
had to be able to get to that color.
>> Estelle Weyl: So
transition features,
there's a single iteration.
With animations,
you can do multiple iterations.
The reverse when you go from, so here we
went from red to yellow and yellow to red.
So one direction was from red to yellow
and then reverse, yellow to red,
it's the exact same transition unless you
declare it a transition in both places.
So I could do, let's do steps and
then two seconds
transitions two seconds and
then linear
>> Estelle Weyl: So
when I give it focus it's gonna
change to yellow then nearly and
when I remove focus, it's still invalid.
>> Estelle Weyl: That
didn't work.
>> Estelle Weyl: I
didn't declare it correctly.
Okay, so here it goes to yellow slowly.
And when I remove focus,
it goes to red in a jerk fashion.
So as it goes to red,
it follows the steps.
As it goes to yellow,
it follows the linear,
right?
>> Estelle Weyl: So
one of the problems with the transition is
there's a limited method of initiation.
So here you saw that I did a focus.
You can do it on the change of a class,
but you have to actually change the class.
You can do it on hover.
There's limited ways to initiate it,
and you can't force them to finish.
If I go like this, and
then step out of it, it went back.
You see it didn't make it
all the way to yellow, and
in one direction it was linear, and in
the other direction it did the five steps.